a lot of people will like so a lot of
people will say like go see a therapist
but then a lot of people are like kind
of confused because
they've never seen a therapist they
don't know how it works and then they
think like oh like i don't know how to
do that because i've never done it
before
so that makes perfect sense because
we're not really taught like what the
the rules of therapy are
so what we're going to try to do is i'm
going to try to share a couple of like
four basic points about you know how to
approach therapy
so the first is that it's not your
responsibility to know what the rules of
therapy are so i know this is like a
really challenging thing to understand
but
you know when you go to the hospital
like let's say you go see your doctor
like let's say you get diagnosed with
like cancer okay so heaven forbid
it's not your job to know like what to
do it's not even your job to like seek a
diagnosis right so as medical doctors
like all you have to do is go see your
doctor and your doctor it's their
responsibility to like you know check
your body
check it for lumps do a colonoscopy
after you're 50 years old
like do a mammogram
after a certain age
it's the expert's job to know what to do
right so i think about like going to a
car mechanic like you just go in and you
say
hey
my car is making a weird noise and
they're like what kind of noise and
you're like i don't know
like you know you just you're it's
you're not supposed to know you're not
supposed to know if it's a fan belt or a
carburetor or like a you know like
an oil leak you're not supposed to know
anything you're just supposed to show up
you're supposed to be like here i am
here's a basic direction for my problem
my car doesn't seem to be working right
you don't even you just say that so with
a therapist all you really need to come
in with is like just a general reason
and it doesn't even have to be a good
one you can just say like life is hard
for me right now right and they're gonna
help you figure it out
so the first thing is that you it's not
your responsibility like how to know
like how to be good in therapy like you
can even go in and ask your therapist
how am i supposed to do this i've never
done this before and like we're all
trained to help orient you to like how
this works so for example anytime i see
someone for the first time i'll ask them
hey have you ever been in therapy like
do you understand how this stuff works
they'll be like no and i'd be like hey
can i take a few minutes to explain it
to you
they'll be like yeah i'd really
appreciate that right so that's like
part of my opener as a therapist if
someone comes in i understand that like
most people don't know how this works so
i have to explain to them the rules of
the game
so the first thing is you don't have to
know so just you don't have to know
really anything you just show up with a
general idea of what you're looking for
you can say i feel depressed or i'm
lusting over a streamer or
you know like whatever i don't know
what's wrong with my life i just feel
like i'm stuck like all that kind of
stuff is perfect you just need like one
sentence of generally speaking why
you're coming you can even go in and say
hey i'm not even sure why i'm here but
like i've heard that a lot of people
benefit from therapy so i'm here to try
it out and like that's actually awesome
so then like the therapist knows okay
cool i know what i'm dealing with
they'll start to ask you questions and
stuff like that they'll take over right
you just have to bring the car to the
shop and then the mechanic will figure
out what they're supposed to do
so the second thing is that a second
thing to understand is that therapy is
not a passive process
so some people will say like oh if this
is your problem go to therapy and so
what some people will do is they'll like
go to therapy and they'll be like
here i am
therapize me and fix it
you know like but that's not actually
how therapy works so the success in
therapy has to do with how much the
patient is invested and how much the
therapist is invested so when you go to
therapy like expect to do the work it's
not your job to know what you're
supposed to do but you still have to do
the work so a lot of times people will
say i tried therapy and it didn't work
for me
and oftentimes when i dig into those
kinds of cases i'll say like what didn't
work for you and oftentimes what i'll
run across maybe like 30 to 40 percent
of people are like very very passive and
don't actually like try to do anything
so the analogies i'd use here is like
going to work with a personal trainer
so the personal trainer is the expert
like you can walk up to a personal
trainer and you can say hey i'm trying
to get into shape that's all you have to
say they will figure out they'll figure
out the how right it's not your job to
understand like how these weights work
or whether you should do cardio or
whether you should do like you know
heavy weights or like low reps or high
reps or body weight exercises or like
parkour or like a decathlon like it's
not your job to figure it out it's their
job to figure it out but once they tell
you what to do
you have to sit down and actually lift
the weights and so i'd say therapy is
kind of the same way where you can't
just show up it's not like a passive
procedure like a biopsy or an x-ray
where you just sit there and they do it
to you it's not like taking a pill where
you just like just swallow and then like
the antidepressant is going to work its
magic as a therapy you have to be an
active participant and even if you say i
don't know how to do that that's a great
thing to ask your therapist you can ask
your therapist hey how am i being active
enough like should i be doing more like
how can i be a better patient in therapy
like
but generally speaking don't assume it's
a passive process understand that when
you go in
the more you think
the more you share and the more kind of
vulnerable you are for lack of a better
term you have to try right you have to
persevere you have to be patient those
are all really important parts of
therapy so the third thing
to understand is that in addition to
trying if it's not working you need to
bring it up with your therapist this is
probably the thing that is
if i were to pick one prognostic factor
so one factor that predicts success in
therapy versus not success in therapy
it's the patient bringing up their
concerns with the therapist
so as a therapist we're not like mind
readers right if you come in and you
kind of like
say and i ask you hey how are things
going and you say like everything is
going well because you're trying to be
polite because you don't want your
therapist to feel bad
that their therapy is not helping you so
you're actually trying to protect them
from feeling bad because oh it's not
their fault it's your fault because you
know you're so depressed that you're
unhelpable but you need to tell
therapists if stuff isn't working
so you've got to say hey i've been
coming here for like a month or two like
i'm not really feeling a whole lot
better can we talk about that like i
feel like i come here every week and we
talk about my feelings but i actually am
not seeing much change in my life like
this is not what i was hoping for i was
hoping for more and they may ask you
what were you hoping for and then you
may say i'm not sure but but it isn't
this which is a completely acceptable
answer so then it is the therapist's
responsibility you may feel in that
moment like oh how is this
person supposed to help me if i don't
even know what i want and then you're
going to feel ashamed of yourself and
you're not going to want to share that
but it's absolutely the therapist's
responsibility and your responsibility
for the two of you to figure it out
together that's what therapy is about
it's a co-op game right
so if someone even if you don't
understand like how to cook like if you
take a bite of something you say it
tastes off
and you're not the trained chef and then
the chef asks you like how does it taste
off and you're like i'm not sure
it just doesn't taste good and then then
like the chef should start asking you
questions right they should start like
oh is it like is it too salty no okay
fine does it need some spice no it's the
spice is fine oh maybe like how about
some citrus like let's try a little bit
of citrus and you're like oh yeah that's
in the right direction
so you have to bring up your concerns
with your therapist about it not working
okay that's the third thing you've got
to do and the fourth thing is to
remember that modalities of therapy are
different so therapy much like food has
many different varieties okay so you've
got like
the third wave of therapies
which include like a lot of mindfulness
so this is like acceptance and
commitment therapy dialectical
behavioral therapy then before that kind
of the second generation of therapy was
like cognitive behavioral therapy and so
that tends to be a little bit more
structured like sometimes you have
worksheet and homework it's worksheets
and homework like it's like very like
first you do this then you do this then
you do this it's very systematic and
then like you know way before that you
had like freud and jung who would do
like psychoanalysis so freud would like
have people lay down on a couch and he
would sit behind them and wouldn't say
anything for an hour and like they'd
meet for like one hour a day like it was
like a daily therapy thing where people
are like free associating so there are
lots of different models of therapy it's
sort of like saying i don't like video
games like you may not like video you
may not like fps you may like you know
mobas you may not like mobas you may
like you know chess you may not like
chess you may like you know candy crush
or whatever
and so there are lots of different kinds
of cuisines and lots of different types
of therapy so if you're not if something
isn't working for you you can also you
know try out something else or even
bring that up with your therapist in
addition to the different modalities
there are different levels of activity
so one thing that i've observed is that
a lot of people seem to like my style
which is a very like high activity style
so some people don't like it like some
people will you know think that they
want me to like
stfu
but
you know so so i think something is
changing where like this generation like
the digital generation is looking for
more active therapists in my experience
so a lot of the older therapists who are
a little bit more passive who are a
little bit like let's just see where
this goes you can't rush therapy it's
going to take six months it's going to
take a year it's going to take two years
it's going to take three years i get
bored and impatient i'm like i want
there's a lot of impatience
in some therapists but i think that
there's a lot of impatience with a lot
of patients as well
but that's kind of like i think that's
okay whereas i think a lot of my
colleagues like feel like that's a bad
thing and one of the most important
things that you can teach in therapy is
you have to teach a patient to be
patient
i sort of disagree a little bit there
i think it's a little bit paternalistic
and it's like oh we have to teach you
how it is because you don't know the
right the truth
but
so i i think that remember that there's
a lot of different modalities of therapy
there's a lot of different like types of
therapists so two cbt therapists may not
be the same i've worked with some cbt
therapists that are very focused on the
past i've worked some that kind of
completely ignore the past
so there's a lot of different stuff to
do so remember if you're kind of
considering therapy and you don't know
how to do it
the first thing to remember is that
you're not expected how to do it they're
the expert right so that's what they're
there for they're there to help orient
you so just take your car to the
mechanic and say it's making a weird
sound and when they're like then it's
their job to figure it out second thing
is to remember that it's an active
process so you can't just show up and
like get yourself therapized it's not
like getting a cortisone shot you know
into a joint it's not like taking an
antibiotic pill or an antidepressant you
have to show up there and the therapist
is sort of like a personal trainer or
that's really what we kind of think of
as coaches
um you know the the coach is a personal
trainer for the mind but at the end of
the day you're gonna have to show up and
do some of the work right like ideally
50 of it
third thing is if it isn't working for
some reason bring that up with them
because that's something that you all
have to problem solve together and the
fourth thing is to remember that not all
therapists are the same and not all
modalities are the same so even if you
don't it's you know just because you
don't like french cuisine doesn't mean
you don't like food
it's just that's one kind of cuisine and
there's indian food and there's sushi
and there's like you know
thai food and there's like nigerian
cuisine there's all these different
kinds of cuisine
and so before you write off quiz like
food as a whole try a couple of
different things then a couple of chefs
within the cuisine right they're going
to be like different versions of sushi
there's like you know the americanized
version of sushi which is like lots of
different toppings and sauces and stuff
like that and there's like the classic
like you know sort of japanese sushi
which is just like you know
fish
or rice and fish with a little bit of
wasabi or whatever there are different
flavors of even an individual modality
so if you guys are thinking about
therapy definitely check it out you
don't have to know how to be good at
therapy before you do it
and lean on your therapist to help show
you the way
you